[connectors] Add support for user-defined Rust postprocessors (#6380)
feldera/feldera: docs.feldera.com/docs/sql/udf.md

    /// All preprocessors with the same name will perform the same task.
    pub name: String,
    /// True if the preprocessor is message-oriented: true if each preprocessor
    /// output record corresponds to a whole number of parser records.
    pub message_oriented: bool,

>     /// Arbitrary additional configuration as a JSON Value.

Reviewer: Value -> value

- `feldera_adapterlib::postprocess::Postprocessor`
- `feldera_adapterlib::postprocess::PostprocessorFactory`

Postprocessors can be used with output connectors that deliver raw
byte buffers, such as file and Kafka output connectors.  Postprocessors
are not supported for output connectors that work with fixed data formats,
such as the Delta Lake and PostgresSQL connectors.

#### `Postprocessor` trait

The postprocessor sits between the encoder and the transport.  It receives data in one of
two forms depending on whether the output view has a primary key:

- **Buffer mode** (`push_buffer`): the encoder produces a single serialized byte buffer per
  record.  Used for views without a primary key.
- **Keyed mode** (`push_key`): the encoder produces a separate key, value, and a list of
  headers per record.  Used for views with a primary key (declared with `CREATE INDEX`).

A postprocessor implementation must override exactly one of `push_buffer` or `push_key`,
depending on which mode applies to the output connector it will be used with.  The default
implementations of both methods call `unimplemented!()`, so calling the wrong one will

> cause a runtime panic.

Reviewer 2: The prose says "The default implementations of both methods call `unimplemented!()`" but the actual trait defaults in `crates/adapterlib/src/postprocess.rs` are passthrough (return data unchanged). This contradicts the code.

:::

> ## User-defined postprocessors

Reviewer: (UDPP)

:::warning Experimental feature

Postprocessor support is currently experimental and may undergo significant changes, including
non-backward-compatible modifications, in future releases of Feldera.

:::

:::danger

* Postprocessors are compiled into native binary code and executed directly within the address
  space of the pipeline. Therefore, only trusted code should be included in postprocessors. They
  should not contain panics or invoke undefined behaviors.

:::

A **postprocessor** is a user-defined Rust component that transforms encoded records produced by the
format encoder before they are delivered to an output transport endpoint:

```text
Circuit -> [stream of records] -> Encoder -> [encoded records] -> Postprocessor -> [encoded records] -> Transport
```

Postprocessors are the output-side counterpart of preprocessors. They are useful for:

- Encrypting or compressing data before delivery
- Adding protocol-specific framing or headers
- Re-encoding data from the standard encoder format to a different wire format

> Each encoded record is delivered to the postprocessor in one of two forms:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Encoded records are delivered to the postprocessor in one of two forms:
```

> - **Buffer mode**: a single byte buffer per record, used for connectors attached to output views without a primary key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Buffer mode**: a stream of buffers, where each buffer can contain an encoded representation of one or more output records.
```

- **Keyed mode**: a (key, value, headers) tuple per record, used for connectors attached to output views with a primary

>   key declared via `CREATE INDEX`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Keyed mode**: encoders designed to work with message-based transports such as Kafka where every message can have key, value, and header components, output a stream of (key, value, headers) tuples.
```

### Implementing a postprocessor

To add a custom postprocessor, implement two Rust traits:

- `feldera_adapterlib::postprocess::Postprocessor`
- `feldera_adapterlib::postprocess::PostprocessorFactory`

Postprocessors can be used with output connectors that deliver raw byte buffers, such as file and

> Kafka output connectors.

Reviewer 3: Postprocessors are not supported for output connectors that work with fixed data formats, such as Delta Lake and PostgreSQL connectors.

Author: I have to see whether there's a way I can report an error in this case

> #### `PostprocessorConfig`

Reviewer 3: This will be clearer in the factory section below.

The configuration for a postprocessor has the following structure in Rust:

```
pub struct PostprocessorConfig {
    /// Name of the postprocessor.
    /// All postprocessors with the same name will perform the same task.
    pub name: String,

>     /// Arbitrary additional configuration as a JSON Value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// Arbitrary additional configuration expected by the postprocessor as a JSON Value.
```

    pub config: Value,
}
```

#### `Postprocessor` trait

The postprocessor sits between the encoder and the transport.  It receives data in one of
two forms depending on whether the output view has a primary key:

- **Buffer mode** (`push_buffer`): the encoder produces a single serialized byte buffer per
  record.  Used for views without a primary key.
- **Keyed mode** (`push_key`): the encoder produces a separate key, value, and a list of
  headers per record.  Used for views with a primary key (declared with `CREATE INDEX`).

> 

Reviewer 3: This is not directly related to primary keys. Maybe we need a table of supported formats and output modes they use.

A postprocessor implementation must override exactly one of `push_buffer` or `push_key`,
depending on which mode applies to the output connector it will be used with.  The default
implementations of both methods call `unimplemented!()`, so calling the wrong one will
cause a runtime panic.

```rust
use feldera_adapterlib::transport::{OutputBatchType, Step};
use anyhow::Result;

pub trait Postprocessor: Send + Sync {

>     /// Called once before any records are pushed for the current output batch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// Called once for every output batch produced by the pipeline before any records are pushed to the preprocessor.
```

    ///
    /// # Arguments
    ///
    /// * `step` — a monotonically-increasing sequence number assigned to this
    ///   batch.  Fault-tolerant endpoints use this to detect and discard
    ///   duplicate output.  Non-fault-tolerant postprocessors may ignore it.
    ///
    /// * `batch_type` — indicates whether this batch is:
    ///   - `OutputBatchType::Delta`: an incremental update (inserts and
    ///     deletes since the last step).
    ///   - `OutputBatchType::Snapshot`: a full snapshot of the materialized
    ///     view at this point in time.
    ///
    /// The default implementation is a no-op.
    fn batch_start(&mut self, step: Step, batch_type: OutputBatchType) {}

>     /// Transform a serialized record buffer (buffer mode).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// Transform a serialized buffer (buffer mode).
```

    ///

>     /// Called once per record for views **without** a primary key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// Called for each output chunk produced by the encoder. There can be many calls to this method between `batch_start` and `batch_end` notifications.
```

    ///
    /// # Arguments
    ///

>     /// * `buffer` — the raw bytes produced by the encoder for one record.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// * `buffer` — the raw bytes produced by the encoder.
```

    ///
    /// # Returns
    ///
    /// The transformed byte buffer on success.  On error the affected record
    /// is dropped and the error is reported to the controller; processing of

>     /// subsequent records continues normally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// The transformed byte buffer on success.  On error the affected records
    /// are dropped and the error is reported to the controller; processing of
    /// subsequent records continues normally.
```

    ///
    /// The default implementation calls `unimplemented!()`.
    fn push_buffer(&mut self, buffer: &[u8]) -> Result<Vec<u8>> {
        unimplemented!()
    }

    /// Transform a key/value/headers record (keyed mode).
    ///

>     /// Called once per record for views **with** a primary key.

Reviewer 3: Called for each key/value update generated by the encoder.

    ///
    /// # Arguments
    ///

>     /// * `key` — serialized primary-key bytes, or `None` if the key is absent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// * `key` — serialized key component of the message or `None` if the key is absent.
```

    ///
    /// * `val` — serialized value bytes, or `None` for a deletion record where

>     ///   only the key is present.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// * `val` — serialized value bytes, or `None` if the value is absent.
```

```rust
use tracing::info;
use std::sync::{Arc, Mutex};
use feldera_adapterlib::postprocess::{
    Postprocessor, PostprocessorCreateError, PostprocessorFactory,
};
use feldera_types::postprocess::PostprocessorConfig;

pub struct LoggerPostprocessor {
   count: Arc<Mutex<u64>>,
}

impl Postprocessor for LoggerPostprocessor {
    /// Pass the buffer through unchanged and log a message every 1 MB.
    fn push_buffer(&mut self, data: &[u8]) -> anyhow::Result<Vec<u8>> {
        let mut count = self.count.lock().unwrap();
        *count += data.len() as u64;
        // Log a message if the counter has crossed a Megabyte boundary
        if *count / (1024 * 1024) > (*count - data.len() as u64) / (1024 * 1024) {
            info!("Produced {} bytes of data", *count);
        }
        Ok(data.to_vec())
    }

    fn fork(&self) -> Box<dyn Postprocessor> {
        Box::new(LoggerPostprocessor { count: Arc::clone(&self.count) })
    }
}

pub struct LoggerPostprocessorFactory;

impl PostprocessorFactory for LoggerPostprocessorFactory {
    fn create(
        &self,
        _config: &PostprocessorConfig,
    ) -> Result<Box<dyn Postprocessor>, PostprocessorCreateError> {

>         Ok(Box::new(LoggerPostprocessor { count: Arc::new(Mutex::new(0)) }))

Reviewer 2: Doc accuracy:

- "a whole number of of parser records" — duplicated "of" (this is in the diff to the preprocessor docs but on line 705 of this file in the new version).
- The new postprocessor docs describe a `message_oriented` field on `PostprocessorConfig`, but the actual Rust struct in `crates/feldera-types/src/postprocess.rs` only has `name` and `config`. The `MetadataTests.testUDPo` JSON does set `"message_oriented": true`, which is silently accepted and ignored — please either remove the field from docs/tests, or add it to the struct with a documented semantics. Right now docs and code disagree.
- The example code block declares `LoggerPostprocessor` with a `count: Arc<Mutex<u64>>` but `LoggerPostprocessorFactory::create` constructs `Mutex::new(0)` — this means each fork shares the count (good) but the *first* instance starts at 0 and `fork()` also shares it. The intent of `fork` is to produce an *independent* copy (per the trait-doc "Used when multiple parallel output pipelines are needed"). The example and the python test contradict the trait contract. Pick one semantic and align.

    }
}
```

### Configuring a postprocessor in a connector

Postprocessors are enabled by adding a `postprocessor` field to the output connector configuration.
Each entry has
- a string `name` (matching a registered factory)
- a `config` object, passed verbatim to `PostprocessorFactory::create`.

```json
{
  "transport": { "...": "..." },
  "format":    { "...": "..." },
  "postprocessor": [{
      "name": "logger",
      "config": { }
  }]
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: A complete example with the logging postprocessor would be nice.

:::note

> Currently exactly one postprocessor may be specified per connector.

Reviewer 2: "Currently exactly one postprocessor may be specified per connector." — please add a link to the issue tracking the lift-this-restriction work, or note that the array shape is preserved for forward compatibility. Without that, a future contributor will reasonably ask "why is this an array?" and have no answer.

Reviewer: Per connector? Per view?

Author: Per connector
